Hello, in this video we're
doing something really cool.
We're enabling an autoplay so
that the game plays itself.
This is great for testing so
that we can bump up the speed and
test out our game without having to
rely on Rick's terrible skill for
being able to move a mouse and
bounce a ball.
Okay so let's jump in and get started.
Let's start by getting clear
on who is doing what and
what is doing whom and how and
all that kind of good stuff.
So I believe that we should have
somewhere on our GameSession
that allows us to say yes or
no in terms of autoplay.
GameSession is the logical spot for it
cuz this is what is controlling the game,
or not controlling
the game necessarily but
keeping track of what's
going on with the game.
So that's where we'll put that
on our GameSession script.
And then in terms of the paddle,
what's the paddle doing?
The paddle needs to know where am I
moving, where is my current trajectory,
where is my current velocity,
I should say.
And that velocity is going to
be looking at either the mouse.
Can I draw a mouse here?
I've got my little thingy on there,
so it looks like a pointer.
Okay, that's the mouse,
[LAUGH] terrible mouse.
Or it's looking at the ball, so
I was looking at the ball or the mouse.
And that is owned on the paddle,
is making that decision.
And then the ball is just being cool and
saying, hey dude, I'm a ball.
Okay so [LAUGH] let's jump over,
clear my screen.
Jump over, first of all,
into our Paddle.cs.
We'll be working in Paddle.cs and
GameSession.cs in this lecture, maybe
having a little bit of a look at Ball.cs,
but for now Paddle and GameSession.
When we look at our code we can see under
update we wrote this code awhile ago,
we're looking to say,
where should we move the paddle?
And this is a cool way of saying
we should move the paddle
based upon where the mouse is.
So, the main thing we're looking at
here is when we say the paddlePos.x =
Mathf.Clamp.
That's just a way for us to say
that it doesn't go off the left or
the right of the screen, here's
the left and the right of the screen.
This is it right here, mousePosInUnits.
So, go for your X position,
wherever the mouse says you should go.
What I wanna do is create an if situation,
a conditional, where we say.
If autoplay is on,
then this should be wherever the ball is.
And if autoplay is not on,
then this should be wherever the mouse is.
So underneath our update, let's give
ourselves an extra couple of lines and
start by typing private.
I'm going to make this a float, and
this is a good chance for
us to practice return types.
It's been a while since we've done this,
but the return type of float,
that means that when we run this method
we're creating a method at the moment,
it's going to return back
to whoever called it.
It's gonna return a float,
and we'll call it
GetXPos and open and
close our parentheses.
Now, what is in here?
There's a few things, we'll start writing
it out and we'll have to jump around
a little bit as we realize we
need to create some new things.
So we'll say, if,
I'm gonna write it the long way, and
then we'll factor it down in a moment.
If find, wrong way Rick, find object of
type, and what type are we looking for?
Well we were looking for
the GameSession at this point.
So we wanna know,
cuz the GameSession, we said this is
where we'll be controlling the autoplay.
If (FindObjectOfType(GameSession)) what?
We're going to say IsAutoPlayEnabled().
Okay, we haven't created that yet,
so we'll go off,
we'll jump off into GameSession and
create what this means.
Basically we're looking for a ball to be
returned that's either true or false.
In other words, yes it is,
or no it is not enabled.
So let's jump over into GameSession up
at the very top of our script up here,
we'll SerializeField.
This'll be of type bool, so
bool is going to return true or
false, so a bool and
we'll call this isAutoPlayEnabled.
And that's going to allow us in
the inspector to toggle on and
off that is autoplay is enabled.
Now we need a way of allowing Paddle.cs
to know what the situation here is.
If we were using a public variable
it'd be a little bit different.
We could be accessing that from paddle,
but
then paddle could also be changing that.
So we get into that situation where we
don't want anything else, except for
the clever player, in the inspector,
to be able to change when
we have is autoplay on.
And that's the only time we want
to be able to change that, so
this is why we're doing it as a serialized
ball that we're gonna return,
rather than a public variable.
Now, let's scroll down to the bottom
of our GameSession script.
We'll create a public method.
And this public method is
going to be returning what?
It's going to be returning a bool,
and we'll call it IsAutoPlayEnabled.
Okay, now here's a little
mini-challenge for you.
I'd like for
you just to complete the sentence in here,
the will return back to paddle.
It will return what we want it to return.
Okay, if you've been following along, and
I know it's a little bit tricky
if it's a bit new to you.
But if you've been following along,
you might have got that.
Otherwise, we're going to type in return.
And this is our variable,
is autoplay enabled.
So with our method,
our convention is a capital i and
with our variable our
convention is a lower case i.
So we're returning this bool,
whether it's true or
false, anytime something is
calling this particular method.
We're about to call this method over
here in Paddle.cs so we're first of all
finding objective type GameSession and
then we're calling is autoplay enabled.
Okay, and
then what do we do if it's enabled?
Well, curly braces in here,
if it's enabled we want to be
feeding into this spot just in here that
I'm gonna change right now to GetXPos.
So this is our update method for
our paddlePos.x.
We're gonna change that to GetXPos and
we need our parenthesis
because it's a method.
And we want to be returning.
When we called that we want something
to be returned back into that place.
What are we going to return?
Well, if the autoplay is enabled we're
going to return the position of the ball.
Okay, so how we do that?
Well, we'll do it the long way first of
all and then I'm gonna factor out a little
bit, FindObjectOfType,
we're looking for what, for ball, Dot,
well we need to find where it
currently is on the x axis.
So that's going to be
transform.position.x, semicolon.
Okay and then what do we do
if the autoplay is not true?
So if autoplay hasn't been turned on then,
or
in other words if autoplay is false,
then we will put in an else.
We're gonna return, well I pretty much
going to return what we were using
here in the first place
which was mousePosInUnits.
We don't need to call it this variable
anymore because we're calling GetXPos,
sorry, GetXPos is a method.
And then we wanna return
the position of the mouse.
So I'll highlight everything after
the equals sign and float mousePosInUnits.
So everything Input.mousePosition,
down to screenWidthInUnits.
And the semicolon,
I'm gonna copy that for the moment and
then paste that after my return.
Now, back up into update,
that looks pretty good.
Now I'm gonna delete it.
I like to do it this way so
you can see exactly what I'm doing so
things don't disappear all of a sudden.
Now, if we look at all of our logic here,
we're saying the paddlePos, that's cool.
We're defining that as a variable.
paddlePos.x is going to be GetXPos.
What is x position?
Well, if autoplay is enabled then
it's gonna be wherever the ball is.
And if autoplay is false, so it's not on,
then it will return
the mousePosition as we were doing.
Let's save that, make sure that everything
is working, jump back over into unity.
We should see if we're on game session,
we should see in a moment that it will
give us, did we save our GameSession?
Let me just double check.
We didn't save GameSession,
make sure you do that.
Back over into Unity, in a moment
we should see an autoplay option.
It takes a moment for,
there it is, autoplay is enabled.
Let's play to make sure it's
all cool at the moment.
Okay, the ball moves,
the paddle moves, we can play, yes.
And then let's turn IsAutoPlayEnabled,
we'll turn it on and so the answer is yes,
it is enabled.
And, Okay, so now the paddle's not moving,
interestingly.
But when we click Go, it goes.
Why is the paddle not moving?
Well, it's linked to the ball and
the ball hasn't moved yet.
Okay, cool, so that's exactly the
functionality that we wanted, success and
high fives all around.
I'm gonna do one last thing in here,
I'll set it to you as a challenge without
a slide, just a challenge that you and
I talk about, just a secret between us.
And the challenge is to factor
out the FindObjectOfTypes.
We've got two of them in here,
and if you had to look closely,
GetXPos is sitting within out update.
So that means every single frame
we are calling our GetXPos, and
therefore we're doing
this FindObjectOfType.
On a game our size, not a problem but
this is one of those things
you'll read in Unity documents.
It says FindObjectOfType
is a bit expensive so
try not to do it in your update.
So I want you to factor this out so
that we're not calling,
we're not trying to find object
of type every single frame.
Okay, so pause the video and
take that on now.
Okay, and
we've done this a couple of times.
So should be reasonably apparent
when I explained it to you here,
if you haven't done it already.
Hopefully you did give it your best shot,
is we need to be caching our reference.
So, cache references.
The first one I will say is,
I call this, sorry.
This is gonna be GameSession,
not sess gaming, GameSession.
Rick can't type.
I'll call this theGameSession.
And then we want one other, which is Ball,
is the two things we're looking for.
And I'll call it theBall.
Now in our start method this is
where we find the reference.
This is the one time we say,
go get it, go find this for me.
It sounds like we're talking
to our puppy out the back.
Come on, here boy,
go find the GameSession [LAUGH].
Go get the ball.
Now we will say, theGameSession =, what?
It equals FindObjectOfType<gamesession>.
Open and close parentheses and semicolon.
And then you should be able to
do the next one pretty easily,
it is pretty much the same.
theBall = FindObjectOfType,
and the type is Ball.
Open and close parentheses.
Now, when we start up our script,
start up our game,
it's gonna cache those references.
So in our GetXPos,
we can jump down in here and just say,
instead of saying FindObjectOfType,
we've already done that and
we've stored that in
the variable of the GameSession.
So we'll say
the GameSession.IsAutoPlayEnabled, and
then return, theBall.transform.position.x.
Save, jump back over into Unity,
autoplay is enabled at the moment.
Click on the play button, any second now.
Often takes a while for my Unity to think.
Thinking, thinking, and then it can't
move because autoplay's enabled.
Click play and it moves.
And the really cool thing
in this whole process,
this is the one thing I wanted to show
you, more than just hey it can play
the game without Rick being useless,
is you can turn the speed up.
And then very quickly play-test your game,
without actually having to sit there and
play it, and
have two blocks remaining, and
then make a mistake where the ball
goes flying down on the screen.
So you can turn up really fast and just
to play-test, to make sure that there's
nothing going, so there's a few situations
where the ball might get stuck,
cuz it's not hitting
the side of the paddle.
And when we're playing, we can hit
side of the paddle and get the angle.
So you could change up your paddle
a little bit, if you wanted to.
But it's gonna show us things like what
happens if we're on our 5th level and
we have a score of 99999 that clicks over,
then maybe our score goes back 0.
And you're like, I wouldn't have known
that if I hadn't have played the whole way
through all of my levels.
Okay and speaking of playing
through all of your levels,
make sure that you test this,
apply everything from your prefabs.
So, click on, if you've change anything,
any settings,
make sure you've clicked on apply.
That is if you've changed something
in your hierarchy, click on apply.
If you've been changing it directly into
your prefabs, then it should be fine.
So, check your other levels.
Save it up, check your other levels and
in the next video,
we'll be wrapping things up and
finalizing our progress on block breakers,
so great work and
I'll see you in the next video.